# UC10 Diagnoses

## 10.1 Preconditions 
The iTrust2 user has authenticated themselves in iTrust2 [[UC2](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc2)].

An HCP is a registered user of the iTrust2 Medical Records system [[UC1](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc1)]. The HCP has authenticated themselves in the iTrust2 Medical Records system [[UC2](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc2)]. The HCP has started documenting an office visit, including basic health metrics, for the patient [[UC7](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc7) & [UC8](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc8)].

## 10.2 Main Flow
An HCP can record a diagnosis of a patient in an office visit and can also provide additional data about the diagnosis [S1]. For creating or editing an office visit, the HCP enters the appropriate information and submits. A success message is displayed and the HCP sees the saved information.

The patient can view their current and past diagnoses, along with the data associated with the diagnosis [S2].

The administrator can update the list of diagnoses in the system by adding [S3] or removing diagnoses [S4].

## 10.3 Sub-flows
* [S1]: The HCP selects the correct diagnosis from the menu of diagnoses options labeled by their ICD-10 codes and descriptions. They enter the following additional information about the diagnosis: the date of the office visit, HCP who diagnosed patient, and any notes. They press the Save Diagnosis button [E1]. A message shows if the diagnosis was documented correctly.

* [S2]: The patient selects to view their diagnoses and data corresponding to the diagnoses. They cannot edit the diagnoses or the data associated with the diagnoses.

* [S3]: The administrator enters the ICD-10 code and description of the diagnosis. They press Add Diagnosis [E1]. A message shows if the diagnosis was entered correctly.

* [S4]: The administrator selects a diagnosis from the list of possible diagnosis, confirms the delete, and presses Delete Diagnosis to delete the diagnosis.  

## 10.4 Alternative Flows
* [E1]: An error message is displayed describing what entries do not conform to appropriate data formats as specified in 10.6.

## 10.5 Logging
Transaction Code | Verbose Description | Logged In MID | Secondary MID | Transaction Type | Patient Viewable
-----------------|---------------------|---------------|---------------|------------------|------------------
1001             | Administrator adds ICD-10 code| Admin | None         | Create           | No
1002             | Administrator deletes ICD-10 code| Admin | None      | Delete           | No
1003             | Administrator edits ICD-10 code | Admin| None        | Edit             | No
1004             | Administrator views ICD-10 code | Admin| None        | View             | No
1005             | Administrator views all ICD-10 codes | Admin| None        | View             | No
1006             | Diagnosis retrieved by id |HCP|Patient|View|Yes
1007             | Diagnoses retrieved by office visit |HCP|Patient|View|Yes
1008             | Patient views diagnoses | Patient | None| View | Yes
1009             | HCP creates diagnosis   | HCP     | Patient  | Create | Yes
1010             | HCP edits diagnosis   | HCP     | Patient  | Edit | Yes
1011             | HCP deletes diagnosis   | HCP     | Patient  | Delete | Yes

## 10.6 Data Format
Field | Format
------|--------
ICD-10 code | *XYZ.AAAA* where *X* is a capital alphabetic letter and *Y* is a digit. *Z* can be a capital letter or a digit. As are optional and can be a digit or a capital letter. The code must be at least 3 characters long, maximum of 7 (excluding decimal). Decimal only appears if more than 3 characters. 
Description | Up to 250 characters
Date        | 2 digit month/2 digit day/4 digit year
Notes       | Up to 500 characters

## 10.7 Acceptance Scenarios
**Scenario 1:: Add a diagnosis to a 24-year-old office visit for pnuemonia**
HCP Shelly Vang authenticates into iTrust2. Dr. Vang chooses to document a new office visit for Nellie Sanderson (born April 24, 1993) on October 17, 2017 at Central Hospital with the note, "Nellie has been experiencing symptoms of a cold or flu". Dr. Vang enters Nellie's weight as 125 lbs, height as 62.3 in, blood pressure of 110/75 mmHg, household smoking status of "non-smoking household", a patient smoking status of "3- Former smoker", HDL as 65, LDL as 102, and Triglycerides as 147. Dr. Vang diagnoses Nellie with pnuemonia, which is associated with the ICD-10 code J09 and with the note "Patient should avoid contact with others for first 24 hours and take prescribed antiboitics." They system displays a message that the office visit details were updated successfully. 

**Scenario 2:: View current and previous diagnoses.**
Patient Nellie Sanderson authenticates into iTrust2. She navigates to her past diagnoses. She sees "J09 - Influenza due to certain identified influenza viruses" as her most recent diagnoses. She sees the details of the diagnosis, including the date of the diagnosis (10/17/2017) and the HCP who performed the diagnosis (Dr. Vang). 

**Scenario 3:: Add a diagnosis to the iTrust2 system.**
Administrator Al Minister authenticates into iTrust2. He navigates to the list of diagnoses and chooses to add a new diagnosis. He enters K35 as the ICD-10 code and "Acute appendicitis" as the description. After pressing Add Diagnosis, the system displays a message that the office visit details were updated successfully.