# UC11 Password Functionality

## 11.1 Preconditions
A User has been created in iTrust2 [[UC1](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc1)]. 

## 11.2 Main Flow
A user may change their password [S1]. If a user forgot their password, they may reset their password through email verification [S2]. 

## 11.3 Sub-flows
* [S1] An existing user in the system may change their current password. The user is prompted to enter their current password, a new password, and a confirmation of their new password (by entering it again in a separate input field). If the user attempts to change their password to their current password, an error is thrown [E1]. If the input fields for "new password" and "confirm new password" are different, an error is thrown [E2]. 
* [S2] An existing user in the system may reset their password if they forgot their current password. The unauthenticated user is prompted to enter a valid user name for the system [E3]. A temporary password and a reset link will be sent to the email associated with this user. If no valid email is associated with the entered user, an error occurs[E4]. The user then may change their password, by entering the temporary password into the current password field during a password change [S1]. If the temporary password has expired, an error message is shown [E5].

## 11.4 Alternative Flows
* [E1] If a user attempts to change their password to a password that is identical to their current password, an error is thrown stating "new password must be different", and the user is prompted to "enter a new password".
* [E2] If a user is attempting to change their password and enters two different values for "new password" and "confirm new password", then an error is thrown stating "confirm new password by repeating it in the input field".
* [E3] If a user enters an unrecognized username, the user is informed "No user found with provided username."  
* [E4] If a user has no valid email associated with the account, an error message is displayed: "Unable to reset this account. Please contact an administrator"
* [E5] If the temporary password has expired, inform the user "Your temporary password has expired. Please request another one".

## 11.5 Logging
| Transaction Code | Verbose Description        | Logged In MID | Secondary MID | Transaction Type | Patient Viewable |
|------------------|----------------------------|---------------|---------------|------------------|------------------|
| 1100             | Failed password update     |  MID          | N/A           | Other            |  Yes             |
| 1101             | Successful password update |  MID          | N/A           | Other            |  Yes             |
| 1102             | Reset request email sent   |  MID          | N/A           | Other            |  Yes             |


## 11.6 Data Format
| Field                 | Format |
|-----------------------|--------|
|New Password           | Between 6 and 20 characters
|New Password (Confirm) | Between 6 and 20 characters


## 11.7 Acceptance Scenarios
**Scenario 1:: Change Password** existing user in the system selects "change password". They are brought to a new page and enter their current password, followed by a new password, and a confirmation of the new password. A message displays "password change successful".

**Scenario 2:: Reset Password** existing user in the system selects "reset password". They are brought to a new page and enter their username. They receive an email with a temporary password, which will be used during a password change. They are brought to a new page and enter their current password, followed by a new password, and a confirmation of the new password. A message displays "password change successful".