# UC12 HCP Edit Demographics

## 12.1 Preconditions
An HCP is a registered user of the iTrust2 system ([UC1](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc1)). The HCP has authenticated in the system ([UC2](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc2)).

## 12.2 Main Flow
The HCP can edit the demographics of a patient by selecting Edit Patient from the Patient drop-down menu [S1]. A form renders with a list of patients to select and all of the demographics fields described in [UC4](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc4).

## 12.3 Sub-flows
* [S1]: The HCP selects a patient to edit from the list of patients. The selected patient's current demographics fill the form. The HCP makes any desired edits and press the Submit button. A message shows if the data entered is valid [E1]. If they select a different patient after editing, but before submitting, a warning is shown [E2].

## 12.4 Alternative Flows
* [E1]: The system identifies fields that are incorrect or invalid, and prompts the HCP to correct them. The data must match the requirements specified in [Section 4.6](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc4#46-data-format).
* [E2]: A warning is shown about unsaved changes that will be lost. If they repeat the action, the new patient's data is loaded [S1].

## 12.5 Logging
| Transaction Code | Verbose Description | Logged In MID | Secondary MID | Transaction Type | Patient Viewable |
|------------------|---------------------|---------------|---------------|------------------|------------------|
| 1200 | Patient demographics viewed by HCP | HCP | Patient | View | Yes |
| 1210 | Patient demographics edited by HCP | HCP | Patient | Edit| Yes |

## 12.6 Data Format
Identical to data format in [Section 4.6](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc4#46-data-format).

## 12.7 Acceptance Scenarios
**Scenario 1:: Edit Demographics** Dr. Shelly Vang needs to edit the Zip code of Jim Bean. She authenticates into iTrust2. Dr. Vang chooses to Edit Patient. She chooses to edit Jim Bean's demographics. Dr. Vang changes his zip code to 98765. She clicks the submit button, and a success message is displayed.

**Scenario 2:: Edit Invalid Demographics** Dr. Shelly Vang authenticates into iTrust2. She chooses to Edit Patient. She selects Jim Bean to edit. Dr. Vang enters "abc" as the zip code, and clicks submit. An error message appears indicating the Zip Code field is invalid. Dr. Vang fixes the error by entering "12345" as the zip code. She clicks submit and a success message appears.

**Scenario 3:: Changing Patient While Editing** Dr Shelly Vang wants to edit Nellie Sanderson's zip code. She authenticates into iTrust2, and chooses to Edit Patient. She selects Jim Bean to edit. She enters "35678" as Jim's Zip Code. She then selects to edit Nellie Sanderson's demographics. A warning appears indicating changes will be lost. She selects continue on the warning. Dr. Vang sets Nellie's zip code to "34567" and click submit. A success message appears. Dr. Vang selects Jim Bean. His demographics appear with the zip code restored to his original value of 12345.