# UC15 Emergency Health Records

## 15.1 Preconditions 
An HCP is a registered user of the iTrust2 system ([UC1](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc1)). The HCP has authenticated in the system ([UC2](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc2)).

An Emergency Responder is a registered user of the iTrust2 system ([UC1](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc1)). The Emergency Responder has authenticated in the system ([UC2](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc2)).

## 15.2 Main Flow
An authenticated user (HCP or Emergency Responder) can search Emergency Health Records for a patient by the patient's name [S1] or username/MID [S2].  Matching patients are shown on the screen.  The authenticated user can select a patient from the list of patients and click the Select button to have that patients Emergency Health Records page pulled up [S3].

## 15.3 Sub-flows
* [S1]: The approved user enters the desired patients First and/or Last Name (or a correct substring of either/both) into the search box[E1][E2].  The patients with first/last names containing the substring(s) provided are shown.

* [S2]: The approved user enters the desired patients MID (username), or a correct substring of it, in the search box[E1][E3].  The patient/s matching the MID/MID substring are displayed.

* [S3]: The approved user selects the patient they wish to see the Emergency Health Records for. The patients Emergency Health Records page is pulled up.  The patients name, age, date of birth, gender, and blood type are neatly displayed, followed by a list of all diagnosis codes for short-term diagnoses within the last 60 days (sorted by most recent first).  Lastly, a list of all prescriptions the patient has received in the last 90 days is shown (sorted by most recent first).

## 15.4 Alternative Flows
* [E1]: No users are displayed if the input does not conform to appropriate data formats as specified in 15.6.
* [E2]: No users are displayed if a user with the provided first and/or last name substring does not exist. (Note the name can be partial, but it must be correct.  "Ale" would match "Alex" as a first name, but "Ael" would not.
* [E3]: No users are displayed if a user with the provided MID/Username does not exist or if the provided MID substring is not found in any existing MIDs.

## 15.5 Logging
Transaction Code | Verbose Description | Logged In MID | Secondary MID | Transaction Type | Patient Viewable
-----------------|---------------------|---------------|---------------|------------------|------------------
1501             | HCP views a patients Emergency Health Records| HCP | patient | View    | Yes
1502             | ER views a patients Emergency Health Records | ER  | patient | View    | Yes

## 15.6 Data Format
Field | Format
------|--------
First Name         | Up to 20 alpha characters and symbols -, ', and space
Last Name          | Up to 30 alpha characters and symbols -, ', and space
Patient MID        | Between 6 and 20 alpha characters and symbols - or _

## 15.7 Acceptance Scenarios
**Scenario 1:: An HCP Pulls Up A Patients Emergency Health Records By Name**  
HCP Shelly Vang authenticates into iTrust2. She navigates to the Emergency Health Records search page and searches for patient Siegwardof Catarina and clicks search.  Siegwardof Catarina appears in the list of matching patients, she selects him, and clicks the Select Button.  Siegwardof Catarina's Emergency Health Record is displayed as described in [S3] above.

**Scenario 2:: An Emergency Responder Pulls Up A Patients Emergency Health Records By MID**  
Emergency Responder Knight Solaire authenticates into iTrust2.  He navigates to the Emergency Health Records search page, enters 'siegofc' in the username search textbox, and clicks the Search button.  Siegwardof Catarina appears in the list of matching patients, he selects him, and clicks the Select button.  Siegwardof Catarina's Emergency Health Record is displayed as described in [S3] above. 

**Scenario 3:: An HCP Pulls Up Several Patients By Username Substring**  
HCP Shelly Vang authenticates into iTrust2.  She navigates to the Emergency Health Records search page and searches for username "fourking".  When she clicks Search, users 'fourking1', 'fourking2', 'fourking3', and 'fourking4' will show up.  She selects 'fourking1' and King One's Emergency Health Record is displayed.