# UC16 Personal Representatives

## 16.1 Preconditions
The iTrust2 user has authenticated themselves in iTrust2 ([UC2](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc2)). as a patient

Another patient is a registered user of the iTrust2 Medical Records system [UC1]. The patient has authenticated themselves in the iTrust2 Medical Records system ([UC1](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc1))..

An HCP is a registered user of the iTrust2 Medical Records system ([UC1](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc1)). The HCP has authenticated themselves in the iTrust2 Medical Records system ([UC2](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc2)).

## 16.2 Main Flow

Patients have the ability to view the list of people they are a PR for and who they have assigned as a PR [S1]. The patient can declare and un-declare other users as personal representatives of themselves [S2], as well as un-declare themselves as a personal representative as someone [S3].

HCPs can assign one patient as a PR for another and view their assigned PRs and assignees [S3].

## 16.3 Subflows
* [S1]: The patient navigates to the personal representatives page and can view their representatives who they represent
* [S2]: The patient selects the "Declare a Representative" option and enters the partial or full name or MID of another patient. A list of patients with name or MID matching the entry appears. The user can select a patient from the list and click "Confirm Declaration." If the patient does not exist, an error message is shown [E1]. Otherwise, a success message is shown and the selected PR appears in their list of personal representatives. The patient can hit "Undeclare representatives", select a PR and remove them as a PR. A confirmation message is shown and the name is removed from the list of PRs.
* [S3]: When a patient is assigned as a PR, they can view a list of patients for whom they are a PR. If they do not wish to be a PR for a specific patient, they can select a name from the list and un-assign themselves. If it completed successfully, a confirmation will be shown.
* [S4]: An HCP can choose to assign a PR to a patient. For each patient, they can choose to view the list of PRs for that patient and view who that patient is a PR for.

## 16.4 Alternative Flows

* [E1]: An error message is shown that the user is not found or the action was not completed successfully. User is returned to form to try again

## 16.5 Logging

Transaction Code | Verbose Description | Logged In MID | Secondary MID | Transaction Type | Patient Viewable
-----------------|---------------------|---------------|---------------|------------------|------------------
1601             | Declare a PR | patient | patient (PR) | View    | Yes
1602             | HCP assigns someone a PR | HCP | patient (PR) | View | Yes
1603             | Undeclare a PR     | patient | patient (PR) | View | Yes
1604             | Undeclare yourself as a PR | patient (PR) | patient | View | Yes  

## 16.6 Acceptance Scenarios

<b>Scenario 1: Add a patient as a PR</b>::Patient Billy Bob logs into the iTrust2 system, Billy navigates to the PR selection page and adds patient "Jill Bob" as a PR. A confirmation message is shown and Jill Bob appears in Billy's list of PRs

<b>Scenario 2: View the health records of an assigned patient</b> (Precondition: Jill has logged in)::Jill logs in to the iTrust2 system, Jill navigates to the list of her assigned patients and selects Billy Bob, Jill is taken to a page where she can view the access logs of Billy, Jill can navigate to the medical records, diagnoses, and appointments page

<b>Scenario 3: Un-assign yourself as a PR (Precondition: Scenario 2)</b>::Jill Bob navigates back to the list of assigned patients, Jill selects Billy and un-assigns him as a patient, Jill receives a confirmation message and Billy's name is removed from the list of assigned patients, Jill no longer has access to Billy's medical records



 

