# UC17 Lab Procedures

## 17.1 Preconditions 

The iTrust2 Admin has authenticated themselves in the iTrust2 Medical Records system [[UC3](uc3)].

A Patient is a registered user of the iTrust2 Medical Records system [[UC1](uc1)]. The Patient has authenticated themselves in the iTrust2 Medical Records system [[UC2](uc2)].

A Lab Tech is a registered user of the iTrust2 Medical Records system [[UC1](uc1)]. The Lab Tech has authenticated themselves in the iTrust2 Medical Records system [[UC2](uc2)].

A Lab Tech is a registered user of the iTrust2 Medical Records system [[UC1](uc1)]. The Lab Tech has authenticated themselves in the iTrust2 Medical Records system [[UC2](uc2)].

An HCP is a registered user of the iTrust2 Medical Records system [[UC1](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc1)]. The HCP has authenticated themselves in the iTrust2 Medical Records system [[UC2](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc2)]. The HCP has started documenting an office visit, including basic health metrics, for the patient [[UC7](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc7) & [UC8](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc8)].

## 17.2 Main Flow

The administrator can update the list of procedure codes in the system by adding [S1], editing [S2] or removing procedures [S3].

An HCP can select a procedure for a patient during an office visit and can also provide additional data about the procedure [S4]. For creating or editing an office visit, the HCP enters the appropriate information and submits. A success message is displayed and the HCP sees the saved information.

A lab tech can view all their procedures currently assigned. They can update the status of the procedure, edit comments on the procedure when changing status to Completed, or reassign it to another lab tech [S5].

The patient or HCP can view associated procedures when looking at an office visit, along with the data associated with the procedure [S6]. The HCP can delete a procedure if its status is still Assigned.


## 17.3 Sub-flows
* [S1]: The administrator enters the LOINC code, Long Common Name, Component, and Property of the procedure. They press Add Procedure [E1]. A message shows if the procedure was entered correctly.

* [S2]: The administrator selects a procedure from the list of possible procedure,  and presses Edit Procedure to edit the procedure. They can then change the LOINC code, common name, property, and description of the procedure. They press Submit [E1]. A message shows if the procedure was entered correctly.

* [S3]: The administrator presses the Delete button associated with a LOINC procedure to delete it.

* [S4]: The HCP selects the correct procedure from the menu of procedure options labeled by their LOINC codes and descriptions. They enter the following additional information about the procedure: the priority from 1 to 4 (1 being highest), the lab tech who will perform the procedure, and any comments. They press the Add Procedure button. A message shows if the procedure was documented correctly.

* [S5]: The lab tech selects to view their assigned procedures and data corresponding to the procedure. They can update the current status of the procedure. They can edit the current comment on the procedure, if they change the status to Completed. They can also select another lab tech, and assign the procedure to them.

* [S6]: The patient or HCP selects to view an office visit. They see all information pertaining to any procedures associated with the office visit, including LOINC code, priority, date, comment, and status. The patient cannot edit the information. The HCP can delete any procedure with a status of Assigned.


## 17.4 Alternative Flows
* [E1]: An error message is displayed describing what entries do not conform to appropriate data formats as specified in 17.6. The user may make changes to the form and try to submit again.

## 17.5 Logging
Transaction Code | Verbose Description | Logged In MID | Secondary MID | Transaction Type | Patient Viewable
-----------------|---------------------|---------------|---------------|------------------|------------------
1701             | Administrator adds LOINC code| Admin | None         | Create           | No
1702             | Administrator deletes LOINC code| Admin | None      | Delete           | No
1703             | Administrator edits LOINC code | Admin| None        | Edit             | No
1704             | Lab tech views procedures | Lab tech | None         | View             | No
1705             | Lab tech edits procedure | Lab tech | HCP           | Edit             | No
1706             | Lab tech reassigns procedure | Lab tech | Lab tech  | Edit             | No
1707             | HCP creates procedure | HCP | Lab tech              | Create           | No
1708             | HCP edits procedure | HCP | Lab tech                | Edit             | No
1709             | HCP deletes procedure | HCP | Lab tech              | Delete           | No
1710             | HCP views procedure | HCP | None                    | View             | No
1711             | Patient views procedure | Patient | None            | View             | Yes

## 17.6 Data Format
Field | Format
------|--------
LOINC code       | [Up to 5 digits]-[1 digit] 
Long Common Name | Up to 250 characters
Component        | Up to 250 characters
Property         | Up to 250 characters
Priority         | 1 - highest priority, 2 - high priority, 3 - low priority, 4 - lowest priority
Comments         | Up to 500 characters
Status           | 1 - Assigned, 2 - In-Progress, 3 - Completed

## 17.7 Acceptance Scenarios
**Scenario 1:: Add a procedure to a 24-year-old office visit**
HCP Shelly Vang authenticates into iTrust2. Dr. Vang chooses to document a new office visit for Nellie Sanderson (born April 24, 1993) on October 17, 2018 at Central Hospital with the note, "Nellie has been experiencing symptoms of a cold or flu". Dr. Vang enters Nellie's weight as 125 lbs, height as 62.3 in, blood pressure of 110/75 mmHg, household smoking status of "non-smoking household", a patient smoking status of "3- Former smoker", HDL as 65, LDL as 102, and Triglycerides as 147. Dr. Vang adds a procedure for "manual count of white blood cells in cerebral spinal fluid specimen", which is associated with the LOINC code 806-0, with the note "Patient appears to have pnuemonia." and with Larry Teacher as the assigned lab tech. The system displays a message that the office visit details were updated successfully. 

**Scenario 2:: View current assigned procedures**
Lab tech Larry Teacher authenticates into iTrust2. He navigates to his assigned procedures. He sees "806-0 - manual count of white blood cells in cerebral spinal fluid specimen" as his most recent assigned procedure. He sees the details of the procedure, including the date of the procedure (10/17/2018) and the current status (Assigned). Larry edits the procedure, changing the status to, "In-Progress". The system displays a message that the lab procedure was updated successfully.

**Scenario 3:: Add a procedure to the iTrust2 system.**
Administrator Al Minister authenticates into iTrust2. He navigates to the list of procedures and chooses to add a new procedure. He enters 35548-7 as the LOINC code and "Allergen, Fungi/Mold, F moniliforme IgG" as the description. After pressing Add Procedure, the system displays a message that the procedure list was updated successfully.