# UC18 Vaccinations

## 18.1 Preconditions
An HCP, a patient, and an administrator are all registered in the iTrust2 system. An iTrust2 user is logged into the system. 

## 18.2 Main Flow
The admin can create [S1], edit [S2], or delete [S3] a vaccine. A success message is displayed and the action is logged. 

An HCP can add zero or more vaccine from the list of all vaccines to an office visit [S4]. 

When an HCP or patient views an office visit, all vaccinations that have been administered to the patient are listed on the office visit [S5].

A patient can view everything they have been vaccinated against, regardless of when the vaccination was administered to them [S6].

An HCP can select a patient and view all of the vaccinations that have been administered to said patient [S7].

## 18.3 Sub-flows
* [S1]: The admin is taken to a page where a list of all vaccines are displayed. The admin clicks the Add Vaccine button. The admin is taken to a page where they can enter the information for the vaccine, including:
   * Name of vaccination
   * Abbreviation
   * CPT Code
   * Comments  
        The admin presses the Submit Vaccine button [E1], and a message is displayed.
* [S2]: The admin is taken to a page where a list of all vaccine are displayed. The admin selects a vaccine to edit and clicks the Edit Vaccine button. The fields of the vaccine are displayed, and the admin can update a field. The admin presses the Submit Edit button [E2], and a message is displayed.
* [S3]: The admin is taken to a page where a list of all vaccine are displayed. The admin selects a vaccine to delete and clicks the Delete Vaccine button, and a message is displayed.
* [S4]: When documenting an office visit, an HCP can select zero or more vaccines from a list of all vaccines to add to the office visit. The vaccination will be added to the office visit in the patient's records.
* [S5]: The patient or HCP selects an office visit to view. They can see all of the vaccinations that pertain to that office visit. The patient cannot edit the information.
* [S6]: The patient is taken to a page where a list of all of their vaccinations are displayed. They can view all of the information pertaining to each vaccination record. The patient cannot edit the information.
* [S7]: An HCP can look up a patient by name and view their vaccination record. A list of all of the vaccinations administered to that patient are displayed, and all information pertaining to each vaccination record is displayed.

## 18.4 Alternative Flows
* [E1]: An error message is displayed if the entered information does not fit the data formats specified in 18.6. Otherwise, a success message is displayed.
* [E2]: An error message is displayed if the entered information does not fit the data formats specified in 18.6. Otherwise, a success message is displayed.
## 18.5 Logging
| Transaction Code | Verbose Description | Logged In MID | Secondary MID | Transaction Type | Patient Viewable |
|------------------|---------------------|---------------|---------------|------------------|------------------|
| 1801 | Administrator adds vaccine | Admin | None | Create | No |
| 1802 | Administrator edits vaccine | Admin | None | Edit | No |
| 1803 | Administrator deletes vaccine | Admin | None | Delete | No |
| 1804 | HCP adds vaccinations to patient record | HCP | Patient | View | No |
| 1805 | Patient view vaccinations | Patient | None | View | Yes |
| 1806 | HCP views patient's vaccinations | HCP | Patient | View | Yes |

## 18.6 Data Format
| Field | Format |
|------------------|---------------------|
| Name | Up to 250 alphanumeric characters, '-' allowed |
| Abbreviation | Up to 10 alphanumeric characters, '-' allowed |
| CPT Code | 5 digits beginning with 90 |
| Comments | Up to 500 characters |

## 18.7 Acceptance Scenarios
**Scenario 1:: Add a vaccine to the iTrust2 system.**  
Administrator admin authenticates into iTrust2. They navigate to the vaccines page and chooses to add a new vaccine. They enter "Hepatitis B Vaccine" as the name, "HepB" as the abbreviation, 90746 as the CPT code, and "Adult single dose" for the comments. They press the Submit Vaccine button, and the system displays a message that the vaccine was added successfully.  

**Scenario 2:: Add a vaccination to an office visit.** _Preconditions: Scenario 1 has passed._  
An HCP Shelly Vang authenticates into iTrust2. They document a new office visit for Nellie Sanderson (born April 24, 1993) on October 19, 2018 at Central Hospital with the note "Nellie needs their HepB vaccine". Dr. Vang enters Nellie's weight as 125 lbs, height as 62.3 in, blood pressure of 110/75 mmHg, household smoking status of "non-smoking household", a patient smoking status of "3- Former smoker", HDL as 65, LDL as 102, and Triglycerides as 147. Dr. Vang checks off HepB vaccine as a vaccination to be added to the office visit. The system displays a message that the office visit details were updated successfully.

**Scenario 3:: View all vaccinations.** _Preconditions: Scenario 1 and 2 have passed._
A patient Nellie Sanderson authenticates into iTrust2. They navigate to the page listing all of their vaccinations. They see only one vaccination listed with "Hepatitis B Vaccine" as the name, "HepB" as the abbreviation, 90746 as the CPT code, and "Adult single dose" for the comments, and 10-19-18 as the date administered.