# UC20 Ophthalmology Appointment Requests

## 20.1 Preconditions

A patient and an optometrist or ophthalmologist HCP are registered in the iTrust2 system. An iTrust2 patient is logged into the system.

## 20.2 Main Flow

The patient can request to schedule an ophthalmology appointment or an ophthalmology surgery appointment with an ophthalmologist HCP [S1]. UC20 improves upon UC1 with HCP types. The new optometrist HCP type can take patients for general checkups, as well as general ophthalmology office visits. The new ophthalmologist HCP can take patients for general checkups, general ophthalmology appointments, and ophthalmology surgeries. Regular HCPs can only take patients for general checkups. The patient can view the status and delete their appointment requests [S2].

The ophthalmologist HCP can view appointment requests and approve or decline them [S3]. The ophthalmologist HCP can view upcoming approved appointments [S4].

## 20.3 Sub-flows

* [S1]: The patient enters information about the appointment request and presses the Submit Request button [E1]. A message confirms the request.
  * Ophthalmologist HCP
  * Date
  * Time
  * Comments
  * Type  
* [S2]: The patient views their appointment request. The patient can see the statuses of their appointment requests. The patient can select a request and delete the request. A message confirms the request.
* [S3] The ophthalmologist HCP views appointment requests. The HCP can select to approve or decline the requestion. A message confirms the action. The appointment will no longer be visible in the patient's appointment request view.
* [S4] The ophthalmologist HCP view upcoming appointments.

## 20.4 Alternative Flows

[E1]: An error message is displayed if the entered information does not fit the data formats specified in 20.6. Otherwise, a success message is displayed.

## 20.5 Logging

| Transaction Code | Verbose Description     | Logged In MID | Secondary MID | Transaction Type | Patient Viewable |
| ---------------- | ----------------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---------------- | -------------- |
| 2001    | Upcoming appointment viewed      | Ophthalmologist HCP | Patient | View | Yes   |
| 2010    | Ophthalmology Appointment requested by patient | Patient | Ophthalmologist HCP | Create  | Yes |
| 2011    | Ophthalmology Appointment request(s) viewed    | Patient       | Ophthalmologist HCP | View  | Yes |
| 2012    | Ophthalmology Appointment request deleted by patient | Patient | Ophthalmologist HCP | Delete  | Yes |
| 2020    | Ophthalmology Appointment request approved by Ophthalmologist HCP | Ophthalmologist HCP | Patient | Edit  | Yes |
| 2021    | Ophthalmology Appointment request denied by HCP | Ophthalmologist HCP | Patient | Edit  | Yes |
| 2025    | Ophthalmology Appointment request was updated | Ophthalmologist HCP | Patient | Edit  | Yes |


## 20.6 Data Format

| Field        | Format                                                    |
| ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| HCP          | Ophthalmologist HCP User's name from the system. Required |
| Date         | 2 digit month/2 digit day/4 digit year. Required          |
| Time         | 2 digit hour:2 digit minutes[space][am or pm]. Required   |
| Comments     | Up to 50 characters                                       |
| Type         | One of "General Checkup" or "ophthalmology appointment". Required |
| Name         | Up to 250 alphanumeric characters, '-' allowed   |
| Abbreviation | Up to 10 alphanumeric characters, '-' allowed    |
| CPT Code     | 5 digits beginning with 90                       |
| Comments     | Up to 500 characters                             |


## 20.7 Acceptance Scenarios
**Scenario 1:** Create an ophthalmology appointment in iTrust2 system.

Patient authenticates into iTrust2. They navigate to the request appointment page and choose to create a new ophthalmology appointment. They choose an ophthalmologist HCP and enter "03/02/2019" as the date, "12:30 pm" as the time, "Left eye only" as the comments, choose "ophthalmology appointment" as the type, "Jack Doe" as the name. They press the Request Appointment button, and the system displays a message that the appointment was successfully requested.

***

**Scenario 2:** View Ophthalmology Appointment Status

**Preconditions:** Scenario 1 has passed.

Patient authenticates into iTrust2. They navigate to the appointments page to view all. The ophthalmology appointment remains with the status of pending as can be seen by the patient. 

***

**Scenario 3:** Ophthalmologist HCP Accepts Appointment

**Preconditions:** Scenario 1 and 2 have passed. 

An Ophthalmologist HCP authenticates into iTrust2. They navigate to the page to view requested appointments. They see the appointment made by a patient and press the Approve button. A success message is shown indicating the appointment was approved.