# UC21 Ophthalmologist Appointment

## 21.1 Preconditions
The iTrust2 user has authenticated themselves in iTrust2 ([UC2](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc2)) as ophthalmologist or optometrists and one of their patients exists in the system.

## 21.2 Main Flow

Ophthalmologist and optometrist HCPs can mark an appointment as an eye health checkup. This visit supports optional basic health metrics [S1].

## 21.3 Sub-flows

* [S1] When submitting an overview of the appointment the ophthalmologist or optometrist HCP will enter the following eye health information [E1]:
  * The visual acuity results for both the right (OD) and left (OS) eyes, with integer values between 20 and 200.
  * The sphere for both right (OD) and left (OS) eyes, which can be a floating point number to two digits.

  and optionally:
  * The cylinder for both right (OD) and left (OS) eyes, which can be a floating point number to two digits.
  * Axis for both right (OD) and left (OS) eyes (although the axis is required if cylinder is entered) between 1 and 180 degrees.
  * General visit notes (up to 500 characters)
  * Diseases from the list: cataracts, age-related macular degeneration, amblyopia’ and glaucoma.
* [S2] After the appointment, ophthalmologist and optometrist HCPs are allowed to view or edit the diagnoses of the visit. 

## 21.4 Alternate Flows

* [E1] If the HCP tries to enter an invalid visual acuity, sphere, axis, cylinder value, the user receives a message saying the value is invalid.

## 21.5 Logging

| Transaction Code | Verbose Description                          | Logged In MID | Secondary MID | Transaction Type | Patient Viewable |
| ---------------- | ------------------- | -------------- | ------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- |
| 2100             | Logging entry for submitting an ophthalmology appointment. | HCP's MID | User's MID | Create | No |
| 2102             | Logging entry for editing an ophthalmology appointment. | HCP's MID | User's MID | Edit | No |
| 2101             | Logging entry for doctor viewing an ophthalmology appointment. | HCP's MID | User's MID | View | No |
| 2110             | Logging entry for patient viewing an ophthalmology appointment. | Patient's MID | NA | View | No |
| 2111             | Logging entry for deleting an ophthalmology appointment. | Patient's MID | NA | View | No |


## 21.6 Data Format

| Field | Format |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| Visual Acuity Results | Two 3-digit integers between 20 and 200,  inclusive. Required |
| Sphere                | Positive or Negative floating point numbers up to two digits. Required |
| Cylinder              | Positive or Negative floating point numbers up to two digits. |
| Axis                  | Integer between 1 and 180, inclusive. Required if Cylinder exists. |
| Notes                 | General visit notes, up to 500 characters. |
| Diagnoses             | Any of the following: cataracts, age-related macular degeneration’, amblyopia or glaucoma |

## 21.7 Acceptance Scenarios
**Scenario 1:** Accept an Ophthalmologist appointment in the iTrust2 system.

An Ophthalmologist HCP authenticates into iTrust2. They navigate to the "View Ophthalmologist Appointments and Requests" page and select an appointment, and select "Approve" from the dropdown menu. The appointment should be moved to the Ophthalmologist Appointments column.

**Scenario 2:** Decline an Ophthalmologist appointment in the iTrust2 system.

An Ophthalmologist HCP authenticates into iTrust2. They navigate to the "View Ophthalmologist Appointments and Requests" page and select an appointment, and select "Decline" from the dropdown menu. The appointment should be removed to the Ophthalmologist Appointment Requests column.

**Scenario 3:** Ophthalmologist appointment proper date in the iTrust2 system.

A Patient submits an Ophthalmologist appointment request. An Ophthalmologist HCP authenticates into iTrust2. They navigate to the "View Ophthalmologist Appointments and Requests" page and the submitted appointment is displayed with the proper date and time specified by the Patient.
