# UC22 Ophthalmology Surgeries

## 22.1 Preconditions
The iTrust2 user has authenticated themselves in iTrust2 ([UC2](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v1/wiki/uc2)) as a patient, HCP, or ophthalmologist.

## 22.2 Main Flow
The patient, HCP, and ophthalmologist can view a documented ophthalmology surgery visit [S1].

The ophthalmologist HCP can document an ophthalmology surgery visit [S2] and provides details about the surgery [S3]. The ophthalmologist can optionally include basic health metrics when documenting an ophthalmology surgery visit.

The ophthalmologist can edit previously created information about previous ophthalmology surgery visits [S4]. No other user can edit the visits.

## 22.3 Sub-flows
* [S1]: The patient selects to view an ophthalmology surgery visit. They see all information the ophthalmologist HCP recorded for the surgery visit. They cannot edit the information.
* [S2]: The ophthalmologist selects to document an ophthalmology surgery by recording the patient, the date, and time of the visit. They fill out a form and press Submit Surgery Visit [E1] A message shows if the surgery was entered correctly.
* [S3]:  A single ophthalmologist surgery appointment entry has the following information described in Section 22.6:
  * Date (current date is default)
  * Visual Acuity Results (left and right eye)
  * Sphere (left and right eye)
  * Cylinder (left and right eye)
  * Axis (left and right eye)
  * Surgery Type
  * Notes
* [S4]: The ophthalmologist selects to edit an existing ophthalmology surgery by recording the patient, the date, and time of the visit. They fill out a form and press Edit Surgery Visit [E1] A message shows if the surgery was entered correctly.

## 22.4 Alternate Flows
* [E1] The system prompts the ophthalmologist to correct the format of a required data field because the input of that data field does not match that specified in Section 22.5 for the office visit data or for any other collected data [S3].

## 22.5 Logging

| Transaction Code | Verbose Description | Logged in MID | Secondary MID | Transaction Type| Patient Viewable |
| ---------------- | ------------------- | ------------- | ------------- | --------------- | ---------------- |
|2201|Ophthalmologist adds surgery|Ophthalmologist HCP|Patient|Create|Yes|
|2202|Ophthalmologist edits surgery|Ophthalmologist HCP|Patient|Edit|Yes|
|2203|Ophthalmologist views surgery|Ophthalmologist HCP||View|Yes|
|2204|Patient views surgery|Patient||View|Yes|


## 22.6 Data Format

| Field | Format |
| -------- | -------- |
|Date|mm/dd/yyyy. Required|
|Visual Acuity Results|Two 3-digit integers between 20 and 200, inclusive. Required|
|Sphere|Positive or Negative floating point numbers up to two digits. Required|
|Cylinder|Positive or Negative floating point numbers up to two digits.|
|Axis|Integer between 1 and 180, inclusive. Required if Cylinder exists|
|Surgery Type|One of “cataract surgery”, “laser surgery”, or “refractive surgery”. Required|
|Notes|Up to 500 characters|

## 22.7 Acceptance Scenarios
**Scenario 1:** Ophthalmologist HCP adds an ophthalmology surgery office visit. An Ophthalmologist HCP authenticates into iTrust2. They navigate to the edit office visit page and chooses the create a new office visit.

The Ophthalmologist selects ophthalmology surgery under "Type of Visit. They then enter "10/31/2018" for the date, "AliceThirteen" for the patient, "50" for the Visual Acuity Results, "-50.0" for Sphere, "-50.0" for Cylinder, "90" for Axis, “cataract surgery” for Surgery Type, and "This is a note" for Notes. They click the Update Office Visit button and the page displays a message saying "Office visit added successfully".

**Scenario 2:** Ophthalmologist HCP edits an ophthalmology surgery office visit. An Ophthalmologist HCP authenticates into iTrust2. They navigate to the edit office visit page and chooses the edit an office visit.

The Ophthalmologist selects a previously created ophthalmology surgery office visit. They enter "50" for the Visual Acuity Results, "-50.0" for Sphere, "-50.0" for Cylinder, "90" for Axis, “cataract surgery” for Surgery Type, and "This is a note" for Notes. They click the Update Office Visit button and the page displays a message saying "Office visit edited successfully".

**Scenario 3:** Patient views a past ophthalmology surgery office visit. A patient authenticates into iTrust2. They navigate to the Past Office Visits Page. They select a previous office visit that is labeled as an ophthalmology surgery and clicks the view button. The patient is brought to a page that lays out all of the information that is associated with the selected ophthalmology surgery office visit.