# UC23 Office Visit Satisfaction Survey

## 23.1 Preconditions

The iTrust2 user has authenticated themselves in iTrust2 ([UC2](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v5/wiki/uc2)) as a patient or HCP.

## 23.2 Main Flow

A patient can fill out a satisfaction survey for one of their past office visits [S1][E1], view their previously entered responses [S2], or change any responses they have previously made [S3][E1].  A HCP can view the results of satisfaction surveys for their office visits [S4].  Patients can view aggregate results for HCPs in the system [S5][E2][E3].



## 23.3 Subflows

 * [S1] A patient can choose to complete a satisfaction survey for a past office visit.  Each office visit may have a satisfaction survey completed for it only once.  The patient must enter enter [E1]:
   * How many minutes they waited in the waiting room
   * How many minutes they waited in the examination room before seeing the physician (HCP)
   * How satisfied they were with their office visit
   * How satisfied they were with the treatment or information they received
   * Any additional comments they want to make (optional)
   

 * [S2] A patient can view a list of the past satisfaction surveys that they have completed.  All information entered in [S1] is displayed.

 * [S3] A patient can choose to edit a satisfaction survey that they have previously completed.  All fields from [S1] may be changed.
 
 * [S4] A HCP can choose to view the satisfaction results for their office visits.  They are shown average values for all numeric values from [S1] and individualised comments unaggregated.
 
 * [S5] A patient can choose to view average satisfaction results for HCPs in the system.  A patient can search for HCPs in the system; for each matching HCP they are shown the HCP's name and the average values for all numeric values from [S1].  Additional comments are not displayed.  However, a percentage of how many office visits for which satisfaction information is reported for that HCP is shown [E3].

## 23.4 Alternative Flows
 * [E1] If any invalid information is provided, the survey is not saved, and the user is shown what is incorrect and instructed to try again.
 * [E2] If there are no matching HCPs, a message is displayed.
 * [E3] If there are no office visits for the HCP, the percentage reports "Undefined".

## 23.5 Logging

Transaction Code | Verbose Description | Logged In MID | Secondary MID | Transaction Type | Patient Viewable
-----------------|---------------------|---------------|---------------|------------------|------------------
2301             | Create a satisfaction survey | patient | HCP | Create | Yes
2302             | Patient views their satisfaction survey results | patient | HCP | View | Yes
2303             | Patient edits satisfaction survey | patient | HCP | Edit | Yes
2304             | HCP views their satisfaction survey results | HCP | - | View | No
2305             | Patient views aggregate satisfaction survey results | patient | - | View | No


## 23.6 Data Format
| Field | Format |
|-------|--------|
|Minutes waited  |	Positive integer value less than or equal to 500.  Required.
|Satisfaction of visit/treatment  | One of "Very Satisfied" "Satisfied" "Neutral" "Unsatisfied" "Very Unsatisfied".  Required.
|Additional Comments | Text, not greater than 1000 characters.  Optional.
