# UC24 Diabetes Testing 
## 24.1 Preconditions
The iTrust2 Admin has authenticated themselves in the iTrust2 Medical Records system [UC3].

A Patient is a registered user of the iTrust2 Medical Records system [UC1]. The Patient has authenticated themselves in the iTrust2 Medical Records system [UC2].

A Lab Tech is a registered user of the iTrust2 Medical Records system [UC1]. The Lab Tech has authenticated themselves in the iTrust2 Medical Records system [UC2].

An HCP is a registered user of the iTrust2 Medical Records system [UC1]. The HCP has authenticated themselves in the iTrust2 Medical Records system [UC2].

## 24.2 Main Flow
The HCP has recommended the Oral Glucose Tolerance Test lab procedure and the lab technician carries out the procedure (OGTT)[S1]. 

The HCP is notified via email of the results from the procedure and is instructed to confirm a diagnosis [S1]. The email will contain only the date of the office visit and a notification that a result is available to be viewed.

The results documented from the procedure determine a default diagnosis that is shown to the HCP [S2].

The HCP can choose to confirm this default diagnosis or change to different diagnosis and confirm their choice [S2].

## 24.3 Sub-Flows
* [S1]: Refer to Use Case 17 for lab procedure control flow. This use case explains how an HCP recommends a procedure and the lab technician will go in and record the results for the OGTT. Once the lab technician has entered the results, the HCP is notified and is told to choose and confirm a diagnosis.
* [S2]: The HCP clicks on view office visits and selects the office visit with the associated OGTT procedure that has been carried out. A default diagnosis is selected (refer to 24.6 to see default diagnosis determination). The HCP selects the diagnosis to give to the patient and clicks confirm [E1].

## 24.4 Alternative Flows
* [E1]: When confirming a diagnosis, an error message is displayed to the HCP user if no choice has been selected.
* [E2]: When reporting results, an error message is displayed to the Lab Tech user if the number entered is outside the limits of results for an Oral Glucose Tolerance Test

## 24.5 Logging
| Transaction Code | Verbose Description | Logged In MID | Secondary MID | Transaction Type | Patient Viewable |
| ---- | ------------------------------------ | -------- | ------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- |
| 2401 | Confirm a diagnosis           | HCP  | patient              | edit           | Yes              |
| 2402 | Patient views diagnosis              | patient  |               | view           | Yes              |
| 2403 | HCP views diagnosis      | HCP  |               | view             | Yes              |

## 24.6 Default Diagnosis Data
|Diagnosis |	Oral Glucose Tolerance Test Results |
|----------|----------------|
|Normal |	less than 140 mg/dl |
|Prediabetes |	140 mg/dl to 199 mg/dl |
|Diabetes |	200 mg/dl or higher |

## 24.7 Acceptance Scenarios
* **Scenario 1:** As an HCP Gregory House, I log into iTrust2 and navigate to the office visit page. I document an office visit, entering weight as 125 lbs, height as 62.3 in, blood pressure of 110/75 mmHg, household smoking status of "non-smoking household", a patient smoking status of "3- Former smoker", HDL as 65, LDL as 102, and Triglycerides as 147. I add a procedure for "oral glucose tolerance test". Once the lab tech carries out and documents the test, I am notified of the result. Now I go to view office visits, select the office visit to edit and I confirm a diagnosis. 
----
* **Scenario 2:** As a lab tech Larry, I log into iTrust2 and navigate to View Assigned Procedures. I select the oral glucose tolerance test. When I enter the 140 mg/dl in the results and change status to completed, the assigned HCP is notified
----
* **Scenario 3:** As a patient Bob, who has had an oral glucose tolerance test and confirmed diagnosis; I log into iTrust2. When I navigate to Past Office Visits page I can see my diabetes diagnosis, 'Normal', as part of the related office visit.