# UC25 Blood Sugar Tracking

## 25.1 Preconditions
The iTrust2 user has authenticated themselves in iTrust2 (UC2) as a patient or HCP.

## 25.2 Main Flow
A patient can add daily blood sugar entries [S1][E1], upload a CSV containing blood sugar data [S2][E2], or view their blood sugar data [S3][E3]. An HCP can search for and view the blood sugar data for any patient [S4][E3][E4], as well as update that patient's upper blood sugar limits [S5][E4][E5].

## 25.3 Subflows
* [S1] A patient can fill out blood sugar data for the current day. The patient must enter the following data [E1]:
  * Blood sugar level after waking up (Optional)
  * Blood sugar level after the first meal (Optional)
  * Blood sugar level after the second meal (Optional)
  * Blood sugar level after the third meal (Optional)
* [S2] A patient can upload a CSV with the following columns [E2]:
  * date, fasting, meal_1, meal_2, meal_3
* [S3] A patient can view their blood sugar data for a day, week, or month in a table format [E3]. Any entries above the HCP specified (or default if the HCP did not specify an upper bound) are highlighted with accessibility in mind.
* [S4] A HCP can search for and view the blood sugar data for any patient for a day, week, or month in a table format [E3][E4]. Any entries above the HCP specified (or default if the HCP did not specify an upper bound) are highlighted with accessibility in mind.
* [S5] A HCP can search for and update a patient's upper blood sugar limits [E4][E5]:
  * Fasting limit (Required)
  * After meal limit (Required)

## 25.4 Alternative Flows
* [E1] If any invalid information is provided, the entry is not saved, and the user is shown what is incorrect.
* [E2] If the CSV is not formatted correctly, the data is not saved, and the user is notified.
* [E3] If there are no entries for a date, nothing is displayed for that date.
* [E4] If there are no matching patients, a message is displayed.
* [E5] If a limit is entered invalidly, a message is displayed and the user cannot update the limits.

## 25.5 Logging
| Transaction Code | Verbose Description | Logged In MID | Secondary MID | Transaction Type | Patient Viewable |
| ---- | ------------------------------------ | -------- | ------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- |
| 2501 | Create a blood sugar entry           | patient  |               | Create           | Yes              |
| 2502 | Upload a CSV                         | patient  |               | Create           | Yes              |
| 2503 | Patient views their blood sugar data | patient  |               | View             | Yes              |
| 2504 | HCP views patient's blood sugar data | HCP      | patient       | View             | Yes              |
| 2505 | Patient edits their blood sugar diary entry for the present date. | Patient      | | View             | Yes              |
| 2506 | Patient views their own blood sugar limits | patient  |               | View             | Yes        |
| 2507 | HCP views blood sugar limits for a specified patient | HCP  | patient    | View             | No        |
| 2508 | HCP adds blood sugar limits for a patient | HCP  | patient    | View             | Yes        |

## 25.6 Data Format
| Field             | Format                                                     |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Blood sugar level | Positive integer value. Optional.<sup>1                    |
| Fasting Limit     | Positive integer value, between 80 and 130. Required.      |
| After Meal Limit  | Positive integer value, between 120 and 180. Required.     |

1: At least one blood sugar entry needs to be filled in.

## 25.7 Acceptance Scenarios
**Scenario 1**: Patient creates a blood sugar entry

Patient BillyBob logs into iTrust2. He navigates to the blood sugar entry page. He enters 80 mg/dl for fasting, 120 mg/dl for first meal, 130 mg/dl for second meal, and 100 mg/dl for third meal. Billy submits the form and sees a message saying his entry was added successfully.

----

**Scenario 2:** Patient views blood sugar journal

**Preconditions:** Scenario 1 has passed

Patient BillyBob logs into iTrust2. He navigates to the page to view his blood sugar journal. He selects the option to view his journal for the past month. Billy sees only one entry for today's date. The entry has 80 mg/dl for fasting, 120 mg/dl for first meal, 130 mg/dl for second meal, and 100 mg/dl for third meal.

----

**Scenario 3**: HCP views patients' blood sugar journals

**Preconditions**: Scenario 1 has passed

HCP bobbyOD logs into iTrust2. Bobby navigates to the page to view patients' blood sugar journals. He selects BillyBob from the list of patients. Bobby selects the option to view the entries for the past week. He sees only one entry from the current date with 80 mg/dl for fasting, 120 mg/dl for first meal, 130 mg/dl for second meal, and 100 mg/dl for third meal.