# UC26 Find an Expert

## 26.1 Preconditions

The iTrust2 user has authenticated themselves in iTrust2 ([UC2](uc2)) as a patient or HCP.

## 26.2 Main Flow

The patient needs to find an Health Care Provider (HCP) with a particular specialty, and selects that specialty from a drop-down list [S1][S2].  An HCP can also search for other HCPs with a certain specialty to provide a recommendation to a patient currently in the office [S3].

 * Cardiologist
 * Dermatologist
 * Medical Geneticist
 * Molecular Pathologist
 * Neurologist
 * Ophthalmologist
 * Pediatrician
 * Psychiatrist
 * Sleep Medicine
 * Urologist
	 
 
A table of all of the hospitals within a specified distance (defaulting to 5 miles) of a patient's stored home ZIP code or of the entered ZIP code that contains an HCP with that specialty is displayed, including their name and address. Under each hospital, the name and contact e-mail of the specialist is displayed [E1][E2].  The event is logged.


## 26.3 Subflows

* [S1] The patient uses a text field to change the radius in which hospitals are discovered. 
* [S2] The patient has the option to enter another ZIP code instead of using their home ZIP code.
* [S3] When a search is performed by a HCP, the system fills in no default ZIP code.  The HCP must enter in a ZIP code.


## 26.4 Alternative Flows
 * [E1] An error message, “Invalid ZIP code” is displayed if the user enters a ZIP code that does not conform to the data format for ZIP code or is not a valid ZIP code.
 * [E2] If there are no matching HCPs, a message is displayed.


## 26.5 Logging

Transaction Code | Verbose Description | Logged In MID | Secondary MID | Transaction Type | Additional Information | Patient Viewable
-----------------|---------------------|---------------|---------------|------------------|------------------------|-----------------
2600             | Find an Expert | Patient | (empty) | View | ZIP code Used for Search | Yes
2601             | Find an Expert | HCP | (empty) | View | ZIP code Used for Search | Yes
2602             | Find an Expert - ZIP code Error | Patient | (empty) | View | ZIP code Entered | Yes


## 26.6 Data Format
| Field | Format |
|-------|--------|
| ZIP code | 5 digits - 4 digits (the latter part – 4 digits– is optional)
