# UC27 Upload Patient Data

## 27.1 Preconditions  

The iTrust user has authenticated themselves in iTrust2 ([UC2](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v6/wiki/uc2)) as a Virologist.  

## 27.2 Main Flow  
A Virologist needs to be able to upload Passenger data in CSV format [E1]. The system needs to protect against the Virologist uploading the same data twice (no duplicates) [S1][S3][E3]. If the Virologist would like to clear the data in the database, they have the option to reset what has been uploaded [S2]. All Passengers are considered as patients.  

A success message is displayed and the event is logged.  

## 27.3 Subflows  
* [S1] Successful upload:
A message, "___ Passengers were added to the database." is displayed with the number of new Passengers in the place of the blank space.
* [S2] Virologist can reset the database and then must upload new Passenger data with the correct data format for the CSV file.  
* [S3] Duplicate checking: A duplicate is considered to be a passenger with all the same fields. If adding a passenger with an existing ID, it is not a duplicate if another field is different (such as a different severity level) and would be added (updating that Passenger) successfully. If no fields are different than how they are already stored in that Passenger, then it is a duplicate. If any duplicates exist, then the message "___ duplicate Passengers were not added." is displayed.

## 27.4 Alternative Flows  
* [E1] An error message, "**Error: The file _ is an incorrect file extension.**" is displayed if the user uploads a file that is not a CSV.  
* [E2] An error message, "**Error: Could not upload contacts**" is displayed if the user uploads a CSV file that does not contain the proper data format for the CSV file.  
* [E3] If 1 or more Passengers were skipped in the upload, this flow is taken. A message, "___ duplicate Passengers were not added." is displayed with the number of skipped Passengers in the place of the blank space.    

## 27.5 Logging  
| Transaction Code | Verbose Description | Logged In MID | Secondary MID | Transaction Type | Patient Viewable |  
|------------------|---------------------|---------------|---------------|------------------|------------------|  
| 2701             | Virologist uploads Passenger data | Virologist HCP | None | Create | No |
| 2702             | Invalid Passenger upload | Virologist HCP | None | Create | No |
| **2703**             | **Clear Database** | **Virologist HCP** | **None** | **Delete** | **No** |

## 27.6 Data Format  

| Field                 | Format                            |  
| --------------------- |:--------------------------------- |  
| Data format for CSV File | `Passenger Id, Passenger Name, Symptom Severity Code, Initial Symptom Date` |  
| Passenger Id          | Contains only alpha characters and digits |  
| Passenger Name        | Contains only alpha characters, commas, spaces, periods, hyphens, dashes |
| Symptom Severity Code | Contains only the specific alpha characters N, M, S, C  <br> `N = Not Infected, M = Mild, S = Severe, C = Critical`  |
| Initial Symptom Date  | Contains only positive integer values for Year, Month, Day, Hour, Minutes, Seconds. <br> Year, Month and Day is separated by only the slash symbol. Hour, Minutes, and Seconds are separated by only the colon symbol.  <br> `Year/Month/Day Hour:Minutes:Seconds`  |

## 27.7 Acceptance Scenarios  

**Scenario 1:** Virologist Uploads Data
For virologist Dr. Anti Gens, a CSV file can be uploaded, which contains the Passenger data [Passenger List](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/326-course-page/team-project/passenger-data.csv). All of the passengers have been stored as patients, and Dr. Gens is able to view all 1209 passengers, along with their severity.  
***
**Scenario 2:** Virologist Uploads Duplicate Data
A virologist, Dr. Anti Gens, attempts to upload a CSV file which contains Passenger data that has already been uploaded and processed by the application. The number of duplicate Passengers contained in the newly uploaded file is reported, with these duplicate entries being skipped. New Passenger data from the file is processed by the application.
***
**Scenario 3:** Virologist Uploads Incorrect File Type
A virologist, Dr. Anti Gens, uploads an image file (.jpg) instead of a CSV. The page displays an error message saying "**Error: The file .jpg has an incorrect extension.**"