# UC28 Patient Statistics
## 28.1 Preconditions
- A Virologist has authenticated themselves within iTrust2. [UC2](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v6/wiki/uc2)

## 28.2 Main Flow
A Virologist, a type HCP, uploads a list of passenger data [S1].

The Virologist can select between various plot or graph options representing the dataset [S1][S2][S3]. An error message will be displayed if a list of passenger data has not yet been uploaded [E1].

## 28.3 Subflows
- [S1] The Virologist uploads a passenger list following [UC27](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-spring2020/csc326-TP-203-01/wiki/UC27-Upload-Patient-Data). If uploading fails or the file is rejected, this use case will not work [E1].
- [S2] The Virologist can view a plot that shows the number of total infected patients per day.
- [S3] The Virologist can view a plot of the number of new infections per day.
- [S4] The Virologist can view a bar graph of the number of patients by symptom severity level.

## 28.4 Alternative Flows
- [E1] If the Virologist attempts to view a plot or graph when data has not been uploaded into the iTrust2 system, an error message appears and the Virologist is advised to upload data before attempting to view statistics.

## 28.5 Logging
| Transaction Code | Verbose Description | Logged in MID | Secondary MID | Transaction Type | Patient Viewable |
| ---------------- | ------------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- |
| 2801 | Virologist views patient statistics | Virologist <br> HCP | None | View | No |


## 28.6 Data/Visualization Format
| Data | Visual Format |
| ---- | ------------- | 
| Infected Patients per day | Plot |
| New Infections per day | Plot |
| Number of Patients by Severity | Bar Graph |

## 28.7 Acceptance Scenarios
**Scenario 1:** Virologist Views Number of Infected Patients per Day <br>
Virologist Dr. Johns Hopkins logs into iTrust2. He has already added the COVID-19 patient data to the system. He navigates to the page to view patient statistics and can view the plot of the number of infected patients per day. The plot has the title "Number of Infected Patients per Day". The Plot plots the number of infected patients along the y-axis, and the number of days that have passed on the x-axis. <br>
***
**Scenario 2:** Virologist Views Number of New Infections  per Day <br>
Virologist Dr. Johns Hopkins logs into iTrust2. He has already added patient data to the system. He navigates to the page to view patient statistics and can view the plot of the number of new infections per day. The plot has the title "Number of New Infections per Day". The Plot plots the number of new infections along the y-axis, and the number of days that have passed on the x-axis.
***
**Scenario 3:** Virologist Views Number Patients by Severity <br>
Virologist Dr. Johns Hopkins logs into iTrust2. He has already added patient data to the system. He navigates to the page to view patient statistics and can view the bar graph of the number of patients by severity. The bar graph has the title "Number of Patients by Severity". The bar graph has four bars that are labeled as: `Not Infected`, `Mild`, `Severe`, and `Critical`.
