# UC29 Track Previous Contacts  

## 29.1 Preconditions
- A Virologist has authenticated themselves within iTrust2. [UC2](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v6/wiki/uc2)

## 29.2 Main Flow  
A Virologist, a type of HCP, uploads a list of contact data [S1][S2][S3][E1][E2].

At any point, the Virologist is still able to re-upload a contact list [S3].

Once a list of contact lists has been successfully uploaded, the Virologist may search for n-depth contacts of a source patient [S4][S5] and view a list of these contacts along with the contacts' symptom severity level at an indicated time [S6].

## 29.3 Subflows  

- [S1] The Virologist selects to track passenger contacts. If existing contact data is in the system, then the Virologist can either select "Track Contacts" [S4] or upload new contact data [S2]. If there is no existing contact data, the Virologist only has the option to upload new contact data. [S2]
- [S2] The Virologist will be prompted to "Choose File" which accepts a CSV file containing the contacts list [S3].
- [S3] The Virologist uploads a contacts list by clicking "Upload CSV" [E2] [S4].
- [S4] A search form is visible for the Virologist to fill out. The form follows the format under "29.6 Data Format".
- [S5] A "Track Contacts" button may be clicked to submit the form and retrieve the results [E4].
- [S6] The contact results are displayed, grouped by depth [S4]. Contacts are displayed, with their symptom level at the given date [S4] indicated. [E5]

## 29.4 Alternative Flows
- [E1] If the Virologist attempts to search passenger contacts when passenger data has not been uploaded into the iTrust2 system, an error message appears saying, "No passenger data is found." The Virologist is advised to upload passenger data before attempting to track passenger contacts.
- [E2] If the Virologist upload failed or the file was invalid, an error message is displayed saying, "Invalid File". The Virologist may re-attempt the upload. The existing data (if any) is not replaced.
- [E3] If the user had not uploaded passenger data prior to uploading contacts, a message is displayed saying, "No passenger contact data is found." The Virologist may re-attempt the upload. The existing data (if any) is not replaced.
- [E4] Clicking the submit button will submit the form if any fields are missing or invalid. Error messages will display beneath missing or invalid input fields.
- [E5] If there are no contacts the report for the given search, a message of "No contacts found" is displayed.

## 29.5 Logging  

| Transaction Code | Verbose Description | Logged In MID | Secondary MID | Transaction Type | Patient Viewable |  
|------------------|---------------------|---------------|---------------|------------------|------------------|    
| 2901 | Upload of Patients' Contact List | Virologist  HCP | None | Create | No |    
| 2902 | Search for Contacts by Depth  | Virologist HCP | None | View | No |

## 29.6 Data Format

#### Search Form

| Field        | Format                                                         |
|--------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|
| Passenger ID | Contains only alphanumeric characters                          |
| Date         | 2 digit month/2 digit day/4 digit year                         |
| Depth        | Non-negative integer                                           |

- The ID field will have an "autofill" feature which filters through existing IDs and names.
- The Date field will have a date picker.
- The Depth field will take text input integers with a minimum value of 0.

#### Contact List
The file must be a CSV in the following format:
* Every comma-separated value contains a passenger's ID.
* The leftmost comma-separated value contains a "source" passenger's ID which has contacted every following comma-separated passenger ID value in the line.

A sample of these file contents is provided in the [System Test Plan](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-spring2020/csc326-TP-203-01/wiki/System-Test-Plan).

## 29.7 Acceptance Scenarios  

**Scenario 1:** Uploads a CSV list containing contact information successfully
Virologist Dr. John Hopkins logs into iTrust2. He has already uploaded the COVID-19 patient data to the system. He navigates to the Tracking previous contacts page. He uploads `passenger-contacts.csv` onto the page. A success message is displayed.  
***
**Scenario 2:** Attempts to upload a CSV list containing contact information with no existing passenger data
Virologist Dr. John Hopkins logs into iTrust2. He has not already uploaded the COVID-19 patient data to the system. He navigates to the Tracking previous contacts page. An error message is displayed saying "Error: No passengers in the database."
***
**Scenario 3:** Modifies the text fields for ID & Date  
Virologist Dr. John Hopkins logs into iTrust2. He has already uploaded the COVID-19 patient data to the system. He navigates to the Tracking previous contacts page. He uploads `passenger-contacts.csv` onto the page. A success message is displayed. He fills in the ID:`3b9bcd0c`, the Depth:`2`, and the Date:`12/11/2020`. Then he presses the button to search for the data. An entity is displayed for the data.  
***
**Scenario 4:** Invalidly modifies the text fields for ID & Date  
Virologist Dr. John Hopkins logs into iTrust2. He has already uploaded the COVID-19 patient data to the system. He navigates to the Tracking previous contacts page. He uploads `passenger-contacts.csv` onto the page. A success message is displayed. He fills in the ID:`invalidID`, the Depth:`-2`, and the Date:`12/11/2020`. Then the button is disabled and error messages display beneath the depth field. No entity is displayed for the data.  
***
**Scenario 5:** Invalid file for upload
Virologist Dr. John Hopkins logs into iTrust2. He has already uploaded the COVID-19 patient data to the system. He navigates to the Tracking previous contacts page. He uploads `passenger-contacts.txt` onto the page. An error message is displayed.  
***

