# UC30 COVID-19's Reproductive Number (R<sub>0</sub>)
## 30.1 Preconditions
- A Virologist has authenticated themselves within iTrust2. [UC2](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-staff/iTrust2-v6/wiki/uc2) 

## 30.2 Main Flow
A Virologist, a type HCP, uploads a list of passenger data [S1].

The Virologist can view the R<sub>0</sub> value of the COVID-19 outbreak on the Analytics page associated with UC28, calculated from the uploaded passenger data [S2]. A classification for the outbreak will be displayed based off the actual R<sub>0</sub> value [S3][S4][S5]. An error message will be displayed if a list of passenger data has not yet been uploaded [E1].

## 30.3 Subflows
- [S1] The Virologist uploads a passenger list following [UC27](https://github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc326-spring2020/csc326-TP-203-01/wiki/UC27-Upload-Patient-Data). If uploading fails or the file is rejected, this use case will not work [E1].
- [S2] The Virologist can view the calculated R<sub>0</sub> value.
- [S3] If the R<sub>0</sub> value is less than 1, the outbreak is given the classification of "dying out" and a corresponding message is displayed.
- [S4] If the R<sub>0</sub> value is equal to 1, the outbreak is given the classification of "stable" and a corresponding message is displayed.
- [S5] If the R<sub>0</sub> value is greater than 1, the outbreak is given the classification of "spreading" and a corresponding message is displayed.

| R<sub>0</sub> Value | Behavior in Population |
| -------- | ---------------------- |
| < 1      | dies out               |
| 1        | stable                 |
| > 1      | spreading              |

## 30.4 Alternative Flows
- [E1] If the Virologist attempts to view the R<sub>0</sub> value when data has not been uploaded into the iTrust2 system, an error message appears and the Virologist is advised to upload data before attempting to view it or receive a classification of the outbreak.

## 30.5 Logging
| Transaction Code | Verbose Description | Logged in MID | Secondary MID | Transaction Type | Patient Viewable |
| ---------------- | ------------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- |
| 3001 | Virologist views calculated R<sub>0</sub> value | Virologist <br> HCP | None | View | No |

## 30.6 Acceptance Scenarios
**Scenario 1:** Virologist Views Calculated R<sub>0</sub> Value When Infection is Stable <br>
Virologist Dr. Johns Hopkins logs into iTrust2. He has already added the COVID-19 patient data to the system. He navigates to the page to view patient statistics and can view the calculated R<sub>0</sub> value. A R<sub>0</sub> value of 1 is displayed, with the expected disease behavior of "stable" displayed next to it. <br>
***
**Scenario 2:** Virologist Views Calculated R<sub>0</sub> Value When Infection is Spreading <br>
Virologist Dr. Johns Hopkins logs into iTrust2. He has already added the COVID-19 patient data to the system. He navigates to the page to view patient statistics and can view the calculated R<sub>0</sub> value. A R<sub>0</sub> value of 0.5 is displayed, with the expected disease behavior of "spreading" displayed next to it. <br>
***
**Scenario 3:** Virologist Attempts to View R<sub>0</sub> Value When No Data is in the System<br>
Virologist Dr. Johns Hopkins logs into iTrust2. He has not added the COVID-19 patient data to the system. He navigates to the page to view patient statistics and can view the calculated R<sub>0</sub> value. An error message is displayed saying, "R<sub>0</sub> cannot be calculated without existing passenger data." <br>

## 30.7 Additional Information
**Tutorial on Calculating the R<sub>0</sub> Value**
- [Khan Academy Tutorial](https://www.khanacademy.org/science/health-and-medicine/current-issues-in-health-and-medicine/ebola-outbreak/v/understanding-r-nought)